---
layout: post
title: Prophet Jonah and The Mines
date: 2015-07-30 22:31:25.000000000 -07:00
---
You know, it's once again taken a bit of effort to get started on this blog post. Probably because it takes a lot of time an mental effort, which I'm a little reluctant to spend. Nonetheless, I figure these might be fun for me to read some day again far in the future, and I know everyone who reads these in the present does enjoy them. It might be noteworthy that I haven't written a blog post for more than a week, the longest hiatus I've had so far. This is mostly because Vienna and Salzburg were rather uneventful except for one exception.

That exception's name is Prophet Jonah. And no matter how well or poorly I recount our encounter, I don't think I'll be able to truly justify the novelty of the situation.

Bryan, Ben, Luke and I we're all taking our train from all Prague to Vienna, where we had recently left David. The train ride is relatively short; somewhere around 3 or 4 hours. It's dark outside, roughly eight o'clock and we're all sitting in our private room with five seats, a common occurrence in European trains even for second class, when a man pops his head through the door. Immediately a couple flags went up; this guy had a pretty seedy look about him. I wasn't about to become a judge of his character at first glance, but I certainly wasn't about to trust him either. He had dirty hair, crooked teeth, hadn't shaven for a couple days, and wore a leather jacket and jeans that really gave off the impression that he was trying to look thirty years younger than his fifty three year old self. "You got any room in hear?" We're silent for a second or two. Bryan looks up from his 3DS with a bit of a bewildered look. Ben does the same for his book, but is perhaps a little less readable. "Uh, yeah..." Luke responds in a matter that clearly voices his reluctance. "Great, could you move over? I'm trying to dodge the ticket guy." I think to myself, Oh. My. Luke moves over, this guys informs us of his plan to try to dodge the ticket checker. "You can get anywhere in the world for free if you have just a little bit of faith." He's trying to be chummy. I try to give him the benefit of the doubt, but it's hard to when he's telling me how his mother was Marilyn Monroe and his father was an Austrian. 

Luke and I make paltry attempts to make regular conversation so that we can bring the awkwardness level down a couple notches, but he basically ignores our questions and starts talking for what will be another forty-five minutes basically nonstop. He starts to rant about how, more than anything else, he just wants to go home to Santa Monica. This doesn't check out at all because he speaks fluent German and English with an accent that definitely isn't Californian. At some point he shows us Al Pacino's signature in the back of his passport. Luke, who is sitting next to him does his best to seem convinced without encouraging him further. Somewhere around this point, I see the ticket checker go by our door by just a half step, stop, then open our door and immediately start harassing our new friend. 

After roughly ten seconds of telling the ticket checker he only speaks English, he jumps straight into fluent German with a noticeable Austrian accent (as identified by Luke). When asked for his ticket he does his best to stall for as long as possible before weakly pulling out what looked like to me to be at best an Austrian Railways gift card. The ticket checker clearly isn't pleased and proceeds to write him a citation which most likely totals triple the amount that the ticket would have cost. I'm apparently looking a bit worried at this point, afraid at what our friend might do, but he simply winks to me and mouths "It's ok, it's fine." I'm actually a bit relieved.

As soon as the ticket checker leaves, our new friend tells us that it doesn't matter that he got the citation; he actually gets them all the time; maybe once every ten times he rides the train. He can't afford the train, but he can afford the ten Euro a month fee to pay his online lawyer to keep the railways from actually charging him. It's a ridiculous story to say the least, but none of us press him. I try at conversation, by asking "Where are you from?" I was attempting to get at finding out where he got on the train but apparently I worded my question quite poorly because he launches into a full on ten minute long rant. He tells us how he's Jonah; he spent three days in a fish before he had to preach to the sinners at Ninevah. As a side note, this is the only name we got out of him the whole time. Prophet Jonah then recounts how he spent a whole year yelling at the sky from the forest at night trying to communicate with God until aliens came and he had a revelation. Now, he claims that he's one of the few true Christians in Austria and one of the few modern day prophets. He tells us how he used to be a pilot, I think, before something happened and they forced him into retirement. I actually forget the details, but now he lives off the 1000 euros a month he gets from his retirement, and apparently squanders it partying in Vienna. Then Prophet Jonah starts getting very self righteous and genuinely angry at the ticket checker, claiming that the checker "belongs to Lucifer" and "Is going to hell." He starts "preaching" to us about the ten commandments and other things.

Obviously, there are quite a few things going on here. In the car itself, Bryan is doing his best to escape the situation by focusing on his 3DS (a portable video game system for the more advanced generations reading this) and Ben is doing the same thing by reading his book "The Fault in Our Stars." Luke is starting to get really uncomfortable and defensively checking Jonah's hands for sharp objects or keys, although he's probably doing the best out of all of us at keeping Jonah calm. I was more concerned with the mental state of Jonah, not really perceiving him as violent or a legitimate threat. The two thoughts that we're dominating my mind were:

1. This guy clearly has issues
2. Is there any way I can really approach him constructively? No, he's too far gone right now

A total of thirty minutes have passed since Jonah joined us and it's about this time that all of our fears were confirmed that yes, this guy is insane and yes, this guy is on some sort of substance. Luckily, Jonah calms down for the last ten or so minutes until we pull into Vienna. We all get off the train together, and much to our dismay Jonah sticks with us. I do my best to say it was nice talking to you, we have to go, shake my hand, goodbye. It takes a couple tries but we eventually manage to separate ourselves from Prophet Jonah.

As a little postmortem on this part of the entry, and as a chance to process this for myself, I want to evaluate my actions with Prophet Jonah. I did my best to be patient and engaging with this man, while also keeping an eye on the situation. I also tried to give him the benefit of the doubt if he left me the chance. I really like to do my best to give everyone I interact with a chance to show to me who they are. Obviously, an encounter with a person like this can go a lot of different ways, and I guess we were just downright lucky that Jonah wasn't dangerous; either that or we read the situation well enough.

On to a completely different subject because I don't want to have to write two blog posts, let me tell you a little bit about Salzburg. Yes, Salzburg, not originally on our list of destinations, but we decided it would be a lot more fun to go to Salzburg and Innsbruck, where I'm at now, than to go to Venice and Milan. This was actually the second time I've been to Salzburg, the first being over 12 years ago now when I went with my family and the Butler family. Actually, that same trip both of our families also went to Vienna. Anyways, I have to say that either my parents are a lot better at planning things to do on trips or we are just terrible at being motivated at this point in our journey, because we did very little in Salzburg or Vienna.

What we did do, though, in Salzburg, was go out to the Helein Salt Mines. My parents or the Butlers basically planned this one too since this was one that we also did this 12 years ago. We had to take a train and a bus to get there, but it was well worth the trip. Let me tell you why. The Helein Salt Mines are the best salt mines in the world. They were started around roughly 700 BC when the Celtics started digging in the hills around there. After their era ended, the mines left untouched for almost another 2 millenia until the 1600s or something like that when this scary archbishop dude was in charge. The archbishop loved the salt a lot because it made him piles of money. "White gold" they call it. It made him so much money, in fact, that he actually was able to fund many of the cool buildings you can see in the old downtown parts of Salzburg. Which, I think, is where Salzburg gets its name; Salz means salt in German. Not only do these mines have the best history of any Salt mines ever, but they have the best tour ever.

The tour starts out by loading the whole tour group onto a train, that goes into the mountain. This train, also, is unlike any other. It probably only goes 12 miles an hour, and is basically just a bunch of benches on tracks which a small engine at the back. The benches run parallel with the tracks, so you have to straddle them to face forward. Also, inside the salt mines, there are four short films shown to you recounting the history of the salt mines. But instead of delivering it to you in documentary form, they give it to you as a reenactment with real actors and comedy. Sort of like the History Channel but actually historically accurate. Also, to get further down into the mines, you go down slides. That's right, they actually used slides to descend in these salt mines. And these aren't any wimpy little plastic playground slides, they are Austrian engineered professionally polished wooden bi-rail slides with perfect angles engineered for maximum speed and comfort for every part of your descent. And if that weren't enough there's even more.

During roughly the third informational video, they show you a process they used to use to mine the salt involving water. They would hollow out a big section underground, fill it up with water, let the water dissolve the rock, then harvest the salt from the brine. Right after the video ended, our guide announced to us "And now we're going to go on the boat." And then slid open a 10 foot wide door no one saw before opening up into a giant cavern filled with water and a big boat. At that moment I felt like that 58 year old Austrian women wearing ear muffs was the most badass person in the world. She just threw down the gauntlet and raised the bar for every other salt mine in the world.

...

After the salt mine tour was over, we opted out of the bus and walked three miles or so downhill back to the train station. This has actually been pretty common for us, to walk instead of take transit, but this time it really paid off. Conveniently, there was actually a trail that went straight from the salt mines back to Helein that followed one of the most picturesque creeks I've ever seen. On top of this, Helein itself is quite a quaint town, some place I wouldn't mind going back to and visiting.

Other than that, nothing much happened in Salzburg. My phone fell off my bed, the top bunk, while I was sleeping and trying to charge it simultaneously. Its dead now. The touch screen doesn't respond, and any image that shows up is only have there and purple. The only button that works is the power button. Sadly this means I don't have a camera for the rest of the trip, so I'll have to put up pictures that Luke takes.

Also, I don't want it to go unmentioned that Ben left us in Vienna to go back home. This has always been the plan, but I was still sad to see him go. He seemed really relaxed and worry free the last couple days, something that I think really suits him well. He's safely back home now.
