---
layout: post
title: The 100 Acre Woods
date: 2015-07-30 22:49:30.000000000 -07:00
---
My first couple days here in the Netherlands were characterized by Bryan's grandparents carting me and Bryan around throughout the whole country, literally. The Netherlands probably only takes about 5 hours to drive across from the furthest two points, and Bryan's grandparents live in a pretty central location. I really appreciated being able to see all the different sites, like the windmills, palaces, churches, old towns, and Dutch countryside, however, by this point of the trip I've been feeling really tired and ready to relax and go home. So it was nice when we the opportunity to take a couple bike rides through the forests.

Yesterday we scrounged together a couple European style cruisers which are similar to the beach cruisers we have in America but with skinnier tires and actually made for riding, and took off for a ride to a town a couple miles away. I don't really know how to explain it, but that bike ride as one of the greatest things that I could have done at the moment. I chose to ride at the back behind Bryan and his grandparents as we cruised on the dirt road that cut through the woods that had started to show signs of autumn. I made sure to really take my time to look around me and take it all in; everything about the atmosphere as we biked through those woods was fantastic. The trees blocked out the sky and filtered the light into something much more yellow, orange, and warm. The ground was covered by leaves but still clear enough for you to walk through it for miles. It started to remind me of The 100 Acre Woods.

The 100 Acre Woods, for those of you that don't know, is wher Winnie the Pooh lives. In A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh books  Christopher, a young boy who is lonely one summer, wanders into The 100 Acre Woods behind his house where he finds Winnie, Tigger, Piglet, Eeyore, Rabbit, and all their friends. Throughout the summer that seemingly never ends they have a huge array of adventures through the woods that appear to be endlessly large. To me those books represent something quintessentially human.

Christopher and The Hundred Acre Woods were part of my childhood, but never a huge part. However, the stories of Christopher have started to take a dis proportionally large role in my thoughts these days. Everything about the stories strikes me with childlike innocence and imagination, something that I would really appreciate to see in myself more. When I was smaller I once spent five minutes counting to 100, for the first time, because it seemed like the biggest number in the world to me. 100 was almost more than I could imagine. But that 100 acre woods that once seemed so wonderfully large and magical is now so easily viewed as pathetically small; not even a quarter of a square mile. The woodland creatures and stuffed animals the at one point all had personalities of there own are now nothing more than inanimate objects and wild rodents. Now that I'm older I know so much more about the world; I know that numbers go much higher than 100 and animals don't talk. I know a forest probably isn't the best place for a young boy to go wandering around in by himself. But, there's something about knowing that makes everything less magical. I'm certainly not saying that learning is a bad thing, but it definitely seems to make certain experiences a whole lot more dull. An unexplored forest is a whole lot more exciting than the one where you know how it ends. That is, unless the forest that you know really is spectacular. 

These sort of things were filtering through my mind as I passed by the thousands of trees on our bike ride the other day, and they continue to sit there. I really wished that I could have explored those woods and found that they went on forever, with great variety and majesty. But I know, as reasonable people do, that those woods, much like The 100 Acre woods, really aren't that big at all.

This has sort of brought me to a point, a couple conclusions that I've definitely reached before but through different paths or trains of thought. I really, really, don't want to know everything. This is why I sometimes opt out of using a map or don't really care if I get a little bit lost. Life would be so incredibly boring if I always knew where I was going. Maybe I don't run as fast as I feel like I do, but for me sometimes it better to wonder if I broke a new personal record than to know for sure. Some pizza places deliver on skis in Alaska. Designer jeans are more expensive because they're dyed using the shells of a very rare mollusk. Sometimes when you lose a toenail it never grows back. I can lift 300 pounds. I really have no idea if any of these things are true, but it's better for me to wonder. I still long for The 100 Acre Woods childhood experience again, and it's definitely still achievable; I'd say a couple of my hikes here in Europe have been like that. But still, I've found that sometimes it's best just to take things for what they are and really appreciate the novelty of experiences that have long since been new.


It's time to come home.
